
Atlantis is one of the most popular resorts in The Bahamas and includes the 141-acre Aquaventure water park, a casino, a golf course, and more.

Graycliff is a five-star dining experience set in an 18th-century mansion.

Lucayan National Park boasts impressive wildlife and fun activities, including kayaking through its mangrove trees.

Check out the Anchor Bay Fish Fry, held every Friday, for deliciously fried fish and other local dishes.

Pink Sand Beach on Harbour Island is the perfect Instagram spot, with its sand derived from seashells and microscopic organisms called foraminifera.

The Commonwealth of The Bahamas is an archipelago stretched out across 500 miles of the Atlantic Ocean. With turquoise waters, warm, salty breezes, and plenty of opportunities to mingle with fun-loving locals, it’s a well-favored Caribbean island destination—perhaps especially for those living along the eastern seaboard, which is connected to The Bahamas via abundant direct flights. Even if you are coming from farther away, this island chain is worth the journey.

From world-class resorts and famed spots like Pink Sand Beach to family-friendly accommodations at Atlantis on Paradise Island, every inch of The Bahamas is ripe for exploration. 

Atlantis on Paradise Island- Atlantis is one of the most popular resorts in The Bahamas—Prince William and Kate Middleton even spent the night here during their tour of the Caribbean. There are five different hotels on the massive property, so guests can choose the vibe that’s right for them.

Baha Mar-Baha Mar on the island of New Providence is one of the beloved (and convenient) resort options for those flying into Nassau, as it’s a short drive from the airport. The 1,000-acre luxury resort is home to three different luxury hotels, plus a water park and 3,000 feet of private beachfront for guests to enjoy.

Kamalame Cay, Bahamas - Kamalame Cay is considered one of the best resorts in the Bahamas, likely thanks to the property’s sense of solitude. The 96-acre resort isn’t exactly easy to get to, but relaxing in a beachfront villa without another soul in sight makes the trek worthwhile.

Hit the beach - You will surely spend some time at the beach if you come to The Bahamas. Luckily, all of the Bahamian islands have beautiful beaches to choose from. If we had to suggest a specific one, it would be the highly photogenic Pink Sand Beach on Harbour Island. This three-mile stretch of soft, pink sand—which gets its color from seashells and microscopic organisms called foraminifera—is a place to go for total relaxation. Bring a book, or just plan on spending your time staring at your gorgeous surroundings in total awe.

Charter a boat - Get out and experience the azure waters surrounding The Bahamas by booking a day trip on a boat, or chartering a private vessel with a captain who will happily lead you on a dive or snorkel adventure. Deep-sea fishing excursions are also available via chartered boat.

Get a day pass to Atlantis - You don’t have to be an overnight guest to experience the fun that Atlantis resort has to offer. All you need to do is purchase a day pass, and you’ll have access to the thrilling 141-acre Aquaventure water park, which includes pools, beaches, a rapid river, and waterslides. If that’s not enough, try your luck in the casino, play a round of golf, or have a meal at one of the multiple on-site restaurants.

Explore a national park - Lucayan National Park on Grand Bahama Island is another must-see spot. Here, visitors can kayak through mangroves or simply go for a stroll, spotting local flora and fauna.

Graycliff - For a five-star dining experience, book a table at Graycliff, an upscale restaurant set in an 18th-century mansion on West Hill Street in Nassau. Expect dishes like conch soup and lobster, plus plenty of freshly caught fish.

Anchor Bay Fish Fry - For a more low-key dining experience, head to Anchor Bay in Governor’s Harbour for its beloved fish fry. The event is held every Friday and includes plates of fried fish and other local delicacies.

Dune - Travelers will have one more meal to dress up for at Dune, located at The Ocean Club, a Four Seasons Resort. With a menu by chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten, expect delicious offerings like yellowfin tartare, shrimp satay, and roasted grouper with lime chili sauce.

Best Times to Visit - Peak season lasts from mid-December to mid-April, when the weather is at its most glorious. This is also when crowds descend on the islands, so you’ll have to contend with higher prices and other tourists.

It never gets much colder than 60 degrees Fahrenheit in The Bahamas, so there’s not really a “bad” time to visit. Do keep in mind that the Atlantic hurricane season stretches from June to November, though, which is worth considering when you’re booking your trip.

The summer months are also rainy, but there will be fewer visitors and more affordable rates. Tourist numbers dip lowest in September and October, so plan a trip during these months if you want to visit The Bahamas when crowds are at their thinnest.

Plenty of travelers fly into the Caribbean—there are 20 international airports across the islands, with regularly scheduled flights from around the world. Nassau is the most connected destination, while getting to the Out Islands can be a bit more complicated (though totally worth it). Your flight to the Out Islands will probably connect via Nassau. Private charters are a popular option, too.

Cruises might be the most common way to get to The Bahamas. Many cruise lines stop in The Bahamas via Nassau along their Caribbean routes, and some brands even have private islands in the archipelago, including Disney Cruise Line (Castaway Cay); Carnival Cruise Line (RelaxAway, Half Moon Cay); Norwegian Cruise Line (Great Stirrup Cay); Princess Cruises (Princess Cays); MSC Cruises (Ocean Cay—MSC Marine Reserve); and Royal Caribbean International (Perfect Day at CocoCay). Virgin Voyages has a private destination on Bimini called the Beach Club at Bimini, and Jimmy Buffett’s Margaritaville brand has a Margaritaville at Sea cruise ship that sails from the Port of Palm Beach to Grand Bahama Island on a regular basis.


Grand Bahama- A visit to Grand Bahama means getting to experience the archipelago’s best outdoor adventures. Snorkeling and diving guides lead aquatic adventures here, and land lovers can relax on famed beaches like Lucaya Beach and Gold Rock Beach. Grand Bahama is also home to Lucayan National Park, which means there is plenty of wildlife spotting to do, too.

Harbour Island - Those looking for an enchanting and colorful experience need not look further than Harbour Island. This is where visitors will find Insta-famous, pastel-colored homes shaded by palm trees. There are gorgeous beaches here, too, but Pink Sand Beach is certainly the most famous.

Exumas - Another Insta-famous destination, the Exumas are where you’ll find friendly pigs swimming in the sea, and they’re eager for you to come and say hello. If you’re sticking around on this island, dig your umbrella into the sand at Coco Plum Beach.

New Providence Island - You can’t really skip New Providence, as it’s home to Nassau, the capital of The Bahamas, and the most common gateway to the islands. Urban hustle and bustle meet serene island escapism in this city, and in all the right ways. Leave time to explore the museums and beaches, and spend a night on the town to feel the city’s energy after dark.

Getting Around - Rental car: If you plan to stay on one island for a while, book a rental car so you can get around with ease. Options are abundant at the airport in Nassau, including known brands like Avis, Hertz, and Budget.

Taxi: Taxi services will get you from point A to point B, and rates are fixed by the government, so it’s easy to estimate your fare. Rideshares like Uber and Lyft do not operate on the island. But, if you want to schedule a ride, try contacting Let’s Go Bahama via WhatsApp ((242) 801-8007).

Intra-island flights: There are both scheduled intra-island flights and chartered flights available throughout The Bahamas. Top airlines include Bahamasair, Flamingo Air, and Western Air.

Ferry: There are also several ferry and water taxi services that transport guests from one island to another. For example, Green Turtle Ferry services the Abaco Islands, with scheduled service between Green Turtle Cay, New Plymouth, and Treasure Cay on Great Abaco, while Sheep Runner Ferry offers connections between Long Island and Georgetown, Exuma.

