CORBIN LOCAL WILDLIFE PARK - A hidden gem, Corbin Local Wildlife is fun for the whole family. This protected enclosure—the home of many rescued and endangered creatures—allows visitors to get up close and learn more about the animals of Tobago.
ARGYLE WATERFALL - Tobago's highest waterfall is a must-do if you are a nature lover; the three-tier falls are not only a breathtaking sight to behold but make for a refreshing swim after a day of exploring.
KELLESTON DRAIN - Kelleston Drain is famed for having what may be the world’s largest brain coral with a maximum depth of 130 feet. Ocean triggerfish, stingrays, nurse and reef sharks, different species of the parrotfish and others can be seen patrolling the area.
JAPANESE GARDENS - Located just off Speyside, swim over a reef chock full of corals and sponges of all types as well as a plethora of diverse fish before arriving at an enchanting natural landscape that resembles a serene Japanese Garden.
GOAT ISLAND - This island off the coast of Tobago serves as a wonderful diving site for viewing coral and beautiful ocean landscape.
LONDON BRIDGE - The most famous dive site in Charlotteville, London Bridge's natural arch echoes its namesake. Perfect for advanced divers, this site provides a unique experience every visit with its dramatic overhangs and crevices.
CASTARA BAY DEEP SEA FISHING - Experience the "Robinson Crusoe Feeling" while deep sea fishing in Tobago's water. Tuna, mahi-mahi, barracuda can be amongst your catch of the day.
SPEYSIDE LOOKOUT - Get one of the best views in town to recharge at the Speyside Lookout. Fresh breeze intertwine with nature provides the perfect backdrop for picture taking and rejuvenation.
MAIN RIDGE FOREST RESERVE BLUE COPPER TRAIL - Get to the oldest nature reserve in the world at dawn and keep your camera at the ready to capture the multitude of wildlife, waterfalls and more under the canopy of the vibrant rainforest.
M.V. MAVERICK - Visit the 350-foot ferry that was deliberately sunk in 1997 to create an artificial reef and see some of the amazing aquatic life that inhabit it. Look out for teardrop snappers beneath the stern, lobsters near the propeller and an enormous bait ball inside the car deck.
TOBAGO YEAR-ROUND WARM WEATHER - Tobago boasts of a warm tropical climate with year-round temperatures ranging from 23 degrees to 32 degrees. Because the island falls just under the hurricane belt, it's the perfect island escape without having to worry about adverse weather.
GENESIS NATURE PARK AND ART GALLERY - A stop by this family-owned and operated petting zoo is a must. Located within a beautiful tropical garden, this quaint eco-resort also contains an in-house art gallery with depictions of the island's history and culture.
LITTLE TOBAGO - Also known as Bird of Paradise Island, explore the island and look for exotic sea bird or nesting colonies of Red-Billed, Tropicbird, Red-footed and Brown Boobies from the cliffside vantage point and well-marked trails.
KARIWAK REEF - Watch the marine world come alive at night at this fan-favourite dive spot that is also an underwater photographer's delight. Moray eels, octopus, small turtles and tropical fishes can be seen gliding over vivid reefs and sponges. Its shallow waters make it the perfect spot for beginners to get their start.
BUCCOO BAY HORSEBACK RIDING - Take this sensory journey by horseback through the waters of Buccoo Bay where you will not only reconnect with your inner self but also forge a harmonious bond with your new equine partner.
ADVENTURE FARM AND NATURE RESERVE - Listen to the sweet orchestra of the island's birds as you visit the home of a vast variety of hummingbirds like the Ruby-Topaz, Copper-Rumped, Black-throated Mango and a host of other species of birds. Perfect for the avid bird-watcher, photographer or those who just love the outdoors.
MOUNT IRVINE WALL - Comprised of a trio of dive sites, this beautiful reef is the perfect spot to not see queen angelfish, hawksbill turtles and even the shy spotted eagle ray.
FLAGSTAFF HILL - Add this to one of your stops for your Tobago road trip. The communications tower serves as a massive marker at the top of the hill, giving you stunning views of sloping hills as well as St. Giles Island, Marble Island as well as London Bridge (yes, there is a London Bridge in Tobago!).
MOUNTAIN BIKING - Go off the beaten path and take a cycling tour of the island: explore the mangroves in west Tobago, Chala's trail in the north or go extreme through the Main Ridge Forest Reserve.
STORE BAY CRAFT MARKET - More than a beach, Store Bay has a craft market that's the home for local artisan creations. A cool stroll will bring you to exquisitely carved statues and jewelry, clothing, hand-crafted soaps and scents, tropical wines, and other fascinating finds that will keep your memories of Tobago fresh for years to come.
COUPLES' YOGA - Take a private couples' yoga session where together you can unwind, rejuvenate your mind, body, and soul in the serenity of Tobago's natural surroundings.
KIMME MUSEUM - Become truly inspired when you visit this historic and fairytale castle which exhibits art and larger than life-size sculptures depicting perfect portraits of beautiful Tobagonians.
SHURLAND'S NATURE PARK - Have lunch alongside wild hummingbirds at this cozy bird sanctuary nestled aside the rainforest.
OCEANFRONT VILLA WEDDING - Tobago is home to a number of picturesque locations to exchange vows. Who wouldn't want to tie the knot on a cove that overlooks the Atlantic Ocean?
MOUNT IRVINE BAY - You can't visit Tobago and not get some surfing in. Mount Irvine Beach is widely known as the best surf location on the island, adorned with beach cabanas amongst beautiful almond trees right on the shore.
ARNOS VALE - The profusion of colorful schools of fish and strikingly beautiful coral make this spot great for underwater photography and gives this beach the title as the best for snorkeling.
MAIN RIDGE FOREST RESERVE GILPIN TRAIL - The UNESCO-listed World Heritage Site is top of the list for birders to see some of the over 200 of birds that reside in the lush, tranquil rainforest including the White-tailed Sabre-winged Hummingbird, Blue-backed Manakin and the White-backed Jacobin.
ROMANTIC PICNIC - From Crown Point to Charlotteville, pick a spot in paradise for that lunchtime or evening picnic for two.
VOLUNTEERISM - Enjoy your stay in Tobago and make an impact at the same time by giving back. Volunteerism plays a major role in keeping the island unspoilt and untouched so give back at any of our wildlife reserves, children homes, animals shelters or even replant coral reef.
TOBAGO COCOA ESTATE - Journey through the estate and learn about the history of cocoa and participate in the fermentation and drying activities at the estate. As the tour goes on, participate in a rum and chocolate tasting session after an evening of dinner that showcases the local cuisine of Tobago.
FRIENDSHIP ESTATE - Friendship Estates offers a more rugged experience of riding and bonding with nature and your partner. A stone's throw away is the estate's own secluded Friendship Beach, which makes for a great cool down after an afternoon of riding.
TURTLE WATCHING - Witness one of nature's phenomenons at one of the world’s premier turtle watching destinations. A visit between January and September will grant you a chance of a lifetime to see female turtles come to shore to nest or tiny hatchlings scurry their way to the ocean soon after eggs are hatched.
PIGEON POINT BEACH - Named one of CNN's World's 100 Best Beaches, Pigeon Point Beach has a little something for everyone. Whether you want to go snorkeling, jet skiing, take a glass-bottom boat tour or just want to enjoy a lazy day at the beach, Pigeon Point Beach is the place to begin your aquatic journey in Tobago.
BETTY STIVEN MYSTERY TOMBSTONE - The mystery tombstone of Betty Stiven remains one of the oldest tales of lore on the island. Everyone has their own theory based on the esoteric words inscribed on her grave. Visit her final resting place in Plymouth and see if you can unlock the riddle.
FORT FINDING - Tobago has a turbulent history and was in high demand by a number of colonial powers, resulting in the island changing hands more than 30 times. A fort-finding tour will reveal a rich history and many fantastic views for the perfect holiday photos.
TOBAGO ROAD TRIP - Rent an SUV and hit the open road. With an area of 116 square miles, an island road trip is a fantastic way to get a taste of everything Tobago has to offer. Revel in its natural splendor and drive through the Main Ridge Forest Reserve, beach hop, learn about our storied history by visiting forts and ruins of sugar factories, windmills, and waterwheels, chase waterfalls and grab some local cuisine along the way.
SEINE PULLING - A communal way to haul in a major catch of fish to the shoreline using a net. A helping hand to the fishermen earns you complimentary fish or purchase if you so wish.
CURRIED CRAB AND DUMPLINGS - One of Tobago's signature dish, so a must-try when you visit! This cuisine is a unique blend of Indian, African, Chinese, European and Latin American influences and flavors.
MAIN RIDGE FOREST RESERVE HIKING - Explore the many trails of the oldest protected forest reserve in the Western Hemisphere and experience nature up close and personal. With winding paths, crashing waterfalls, rugged peaks and heart-pumping bike tracks to explore, one thing's for sure, you'll never see the same sights twice.
NYLON POOL - One of Tobago's iconic attractions, a visit to Nylon Pool's stunningly crystal clear shallow waters is the only place in the world where you can stand up in the middle of the ocean. Legend has it that its mystical waters contain powers to reverse one's age by 10 years.
WATER SPORTS - Whether it be kayaking, stand up paddle, or kitesurfing, Tobago has countless water sports available if you're looking for thrilling new adventures.
BUCCOO GOAT AND CRAB RACE - Witness this unique and age-old experience as jockeys race goats to the finish line. This popular and lively event draws thousands of spectators to one of Tobago's most internationally acclaimed festival.
TOBAGO BEACH SUNSETS - No two sunsets are ever alike in Tobago, ranging from rosy pink hues to molten gold, transforming the island's landscape into a magical tapestry of color. Some of the most charming sunsets can be captured while strolling hand in hand on the white sand with that special someone.
TOBAGO HERITAGE FESTIVAL - The annual festivities, which run from mid-July to early August were created to preserve the unique cultural traditions of Tobago. Visit the many quaint and friendly villages and experience their way of life, language and varied oral traditions, culture, dances, music and of course, their culinary delights.
PIRATE'S BAY - This secluded, less populated beach is located in Charlotteville and is only accessible by walking or boat. According to lore, the harbor was a fan-favorite for pirates such as Black Beard and Henry Morgan in the 17th and 18th centuries. Today, it's known for being picturesque and serene, making it the perfect spot a day of swimming or snorkeling, a private afternoon for two or to spend some time away from hustle and bustle of life.
TOBAGO BOTANICAL GARDENS - Charming, peaceful and idyllic, the Botanical Gardens is a walk in the park (literally) and is great for taking a cool stroll through a serene space set within the concrete jungle of the capital city.
SUNSET CRUISE FOR TWO - Fall in love all over again as you set sail on a romantic sunset cruise aboard a luxury catamaran or yacht.
SEA TO SEA MARATHON - If you're a marathon junkie then this one's for you. This international premier event includes picturesque winding routes from the oldest protected rainforest, along the Atlantic Coast and ends at the rustic Little Rockly Bay in Lambeau.
MORIAH OLE TIME WEDDING - Come and take in this energetic parade of vibrant colors and dances re-enacting a wedding ceremony of long ago in the streets of Moriah. Much more than just a spectator affair, you'll be encouraged to join the celebrations: dance the brush back or heel and toe with the happy couple and bridal party.
FORT KING GEORGE HISTORICAL MUSEUM - Our history reveals how the ancestors came, lived, fought and conquered to survive on the island. Learn about Tobago's rich, multifaceted history through several collections of artefacts that tell of Amerindian life, European colonisation, post-slavery and how the island's distinct culture developed.
BUCCOO SUNDAY SCHOOL - If you want insight into Tobago's nightlife, Sunday School is it! The ultimate weekly Sunday night lime is replete with a live steel band, DJ, food and drinks all infused with locals and tourists alike. Safe and fun for all ages, Sunday School is a great way to kickstart your week in Tobago.
CARIB GREAT RACE - One of the world's longest-running offshore powerboat races in the world, Carib Great Race challenges competitors to speed the high seas from one island to the other. The thrilling race starts in the Gulf of Paria in Trinidad and the last course takes the boats up the West Coast of Tobago, to Plymouth and then back down to finish in Store Bay.
CASTARA BAY - Lined with coconut trees, this bay's clear waters are just the beginning of this charming fishing town. In addition to the lookout point above the community which serves up some of the most stunning views of Tobago you'll ever see, you can easily lose track of the day with activities including swimming, sunbathing, kayaking, snorkelling and fishing.
MASSY RAINBOW CUP INTERNATIONAL TRIATHLON - Talented athletes from around the world compete in a multisport race including swimming, cycling and running starting at the enchanted Turtle Beach through the rugged streets of Black Rock and back.
COUPLES' CAMPING - A must if you both love the outdoors. Spend a magical night with your better half sleeping under the stars in total peace and tranquility at a secluded romantic location.
KITEBOARDING - The western side gets strong gusts of wind from the ocean making this an excellent beach for kiteboarding, one of the fastest-growing watersports in the world. Learn the basics with private classes or make it a fun group activity with your friends!
PARLATUVIER BAY - The beach itself is calm, scenic and captivating with small fishing boats anchored in the beach. A stop by the popular Glasgow Bar is a must. Perched on a hilltop overlooking the bay, grab a beer and feel the warm breeze as you take in the many hues of blue and green of the ocean.
YOGA OR TAI CHI - Kickstart your day feeling focused and centered with early morning movement sessions. With varying styles of practice available, it's easy to unwind in the greenery around you.
LOVER'S BAY - Take a boat from Man O' War Bay's jetty in Charlotteville to the secluded Lover's Bay for the ultimate private experience including a lunch picnic.
GOLF - The island's two golf courses are woven into the landscape of old sprawling coconut plantations, which make for scenic views as you and your other half challenge each other to a game of golf at the Magdalena Grand Beach & Golf Resort or the Mount Irvine Bay Resort.
COURLAND MONUMENT - Located in Plymouth next to Fort James, the Courland Monument is a piece of modern architecture built to honour the first settlers of Courland (modern-day Latvia). Add this to your island tour and learn more about their occupation and why Tobago was one of the most coveted islands in the Caribbean.
PIGEON POINT BEACH WEDDING - The award-winning beaches and iconic thatched-roof jetty offers you the perfect setting for your special day. Blue skies, white sand and enchanting sunsets await you as you say "I Do".
TRADITIONAL DIRT OVEN - If you love bread and pastries, you'll feel like you've stepped into heaven as you approach the famous traditional dirt oven in Castara. Tarts, buns and so much more are baked fresh and to perfection right on the beach. Each delicacy is hand-crafted and meticulously prepared so it's easy to make repeat visits during your stay.
TOBAGO BLUE FOOD FESTIVAL - Named as one of the world's best food festivals by CNN, the Tobago Blue Food Festival gets its name from the root crop dasheen, which takes on a blue tint when cooked. The festival gives local chefs licence to concoct creative and innovative Caribbean dishes with dasheen as the star ingredient.
STONEHAVEN BAY - Usually unpopulated, Stonehaven Bay is the perfect spot to have some alone time and soak up the sun with your loved one without another soul in sight.
VILLA SOLEIL WEDDING - There are countless sites on the island that create the perfect spot to say "I Do". Why not say hello to forever with your partner while admiring the stunning views of the Caribbean Sea from a private covered jetty?
BEACH HOPPING - Take a road trip around the island and enjoy the distinct personalities and experiences each beach has to offer.
PIGEON POINT JET SKIING - Let your aquatic adventure begin at Pigeon Point. Explore the beach at full throttle and channel your inner Baywatch!
BUCCOO REEF - Considered one of the most spectacular reefs in the world by famous explorer Jacques Cousteau, the picturesque Buccoo Reef is chock-full of tropical fish and vibrant coral reef. Take a glass-bottom boat ride or go on a dive to discover more of the reef's treasures.
ST GILES ISLANDS - These tiny islands off the northern coast of Tobago are an important breeding area for several bird species including sightings of the Frigatebird, Red-footed Booby, Noddy Tern and offer brilliant underwater scenery for divers.
TOBAGO SWEETS AND CONFECTIONARIES - If you love sweets, you can't visit Tobago and not try the island's signature confectionaries. Sugar cakes, benne balls, toolum, tamarind balls and fudge are just a few of the must-have treats to have. But be careful, it's hard to just have one!
JUST THE TWO OF US CATAMARAN EXCURSION - Enjoy a private sailing for two on a catamaran with a captain and first mate. Take in stunning views along the scenic Caribbean side of Tobago, and go snorkeling, kayaking or fishing all with a well-stocked bar and light snacks at your fingertips.
BATTEAUX BAY - Considered one of Tobago's best-kept secrets, Batteaux Bay is located adjacent to Blue Waters Inn Beach Resort and is protected by rocky headlands with flourishing trees. This beach is the perfect mini-getaway for couples and also provides amazing dive sites filled with shimmering reefs and corals for divers and snorkelers alike.
LES COTEAUX FOLKTALES AND SUPERSTITIONS - An evening of mystery, history and witchcraft await you at "Folktales and Superstitions", a dramatic theatre production within the Tobago Heritage Festival activities that highlight the cultural traditions of the village of Les Coteaux.
BLOODY BAY BEACH - Don't let the name scare you. While this beach was named after a battle between English soldiers and African slaves in the 18th century, it doesn't even describe the allure of this peaceful beach. With a nearby bar, WiFi and other amenities, you can't go wrong spending a few hours here.
TURTLE BEACH - Also known as Great Courland Bay, this beach got its namesake from the number of turtles that will come ashore and lay their eggs, a perfect location if you're here during turtle watching season, which runs from March to August. It's also great for a chill day on the beach, surfing and kayaking.
CARNIVAL TUESDAY MUD MAS - Get in on the action as locals and tourists alike celebrate J'ouvert (pre-dawn Carnival celebrations) as they cover themselves in prepared, sanitized mud before forming an energetic Carnival street procession through the streets of Scarborough.
HARVEST FESTIVAL - Celebrated on Sundays year-round across the island in different villages. The festivities culminate with a street lime / fete.
ENGLISHMAN'S BAY - A mysterious, secluded and picturesque white sandy beach stretched to welcome you. The view is breathtaking and the water is calm and relaxing. It’s a scene straight out of Robinson Crusoe and an idyllic spot to castaway for a day of lounging, spotting colourful birds in the trees above.
KING'S BAY - Coconut trees line the powder-soft sand and clear, calm waters of King’s Bay, making it a scenic spot for sunbathing, as well as an ideal destination for swimming and snorkeling.
GARDEN WEDDING - Start forever with the love of your life in a quaint garden tucked away in an exclusive luxury villa surrounded by the potpourri scents of flowers, plush trees and shrubs and sounds of tropical birds.
GRANGE BEACH - This popular beach spot is a great spot to catch some of the most beautiful sunsets. During the day, take a walk, sunbathe or take a dip in clear blue waters.
SPEYSIDE HUMMINGBIRD GALLERY - Watch these winged jewels up close and personal at the Hummingbird Gallery. If you're an avid birder, you'll have fun trying to identify the six species that live there including the White-Tailed Sabrewing, Black-Throated Mango and Ruby Topaz.
FISHERMAN'S FESTIVAL - Fishing villages in Tobago celebrate prosperity and success with festivities including games, fishing and speed boat competitions. The day ends with an after party complete with music and live performances.
TOBAGO COASTAL TOUR - Explore Tobago’s coastal scenery that spans 116 square miles of land with hidden bays, coves, flats and reefs. If you're up for an adventure, take a day tour and start in Crown Point in the west and sail to Charlotteville in the east.
TABLE FOR TWO - Share an intimate and private evening with your significant other with a custom just-for-you-two dining experience.
GLASS BOTTOM KAYAK TOUR - Grab a kayak and explore the Buccoo Reef mangrove lagoon which is the home for various species of nesting birds, reptiles and sea life.
TOBAGO NIGHTLIFE - After the sun sets, get ready to enjoy a lime (hang out) Tobago-style. Crown Point is the heart of all the action, where you can go bar-hopping, sing karaoke and more if you're looking for a night out on the town.
WINE TASTING - Watch the sun set on the balcony of a local wine bar, Time To Wine. Grab a bottle from their extensive collection including locally made wines and ports and reflect on your day in paradise.
STAND UP PADDLE - Stand up paddle through a picturesque lagoon, bordered by majestic mangrove trees, as well as secret rivers, hidden beaches with waterfalls and over beautiful coral reefs, finishing your tour with a few fun waves.
CHARLOTTEVILLE SNORKELING TOUR - Spend the day discovering East Tobago's vivid underwater world in the quaint little village of Charlotteville. Head to Pirate Bay's uncrowded beaches and snorkel to its beautiful reefs before heading off to Lovers Bay and its brilliant pink sand beach.
BAREFOOT HIKING - Go hiking with Barefoot Tobago exploring Tobago's least known trails, waterfalls and beaches.
DEFINE FITNESS - Get your pulse racing with the friendly folks at Define Fitness. In addition to their action-packed outdoor obstacle course training facility, this high-octane adventure group also hosts hikes, mountain biking expeditions, yoga, physical rehabilitation and more.
CAMP NATION - Spend the night in the wilderness and under camping or glamping with CampNation; an alternative outdoor experience in a safe, fun environment without any hassle.
TOBAGO CHOCOLATE FACTORY - Learn the history of Tobago’s cocoa and enjoy the ultimate Chocolate Experience with a sweet hands-on activity you don’t want to miss. Guests of all ages can experience the art of tempering, moulding, and creating decadent truffles and chocolate bars while soaking in glorious ocean views.
PLANET CERAMICS - Get your hands dirty and go at the wheels at Planet Ceramics in pottery making workshops with Helen. Classes are available for up to 6 persons.
MOUNT IRVINE WATER SPORTS - Relax on the water a hammock, kayak, standup paddle boards, water mats, sail boats and much more whilst taking in some vitamin sea and enjoying the ocean breeze.
COOKING DATE - Add some heat to the romance and cook to your own heart's delight while bonding in the kitchen either with a private chef; just the two of you.
THERAPEUTIC SIP AND PAINT - Get creative and channel your inner artist with a Therapeutic Sip and Paint. This relaxing experience can be hosted at various locations across the island, or even at your hotel, villa, or guesthouse. You don’t need to be Picasso, just be ready to have some fun connecting with friends and family over a glass of wine, your favourite snacks, and a night of laughs while you perfect your painting skills with the certified and trained therapist Delisa Rollocks.
ANIECIA BAPTISTE SIP AND PAINT - The vibrant Aniecia Baptiste offers customizable Sip & Paint experiences tailored to suit your needs whether you’re looking for a party atmosphere or something more serious and subdued.
TOMLEY'S SIP AND DAB - Don’t miss Tomley's signature Sip & Dab that focuses on the production, development and exhibition of fine Art from various artistic genres.