Top 5 Can’t Miss
Atlantis is one of the most popular resorts in The Bahamas and includes the 141-acre Aquaventure water park, a casino, a golf course, and more.
Graycliff is a five-star dining experience set in an 18th-century mansion.
Lucayan National Park boasts impressive wildlife and fun activities, including kayaking through its mangrove trees.
Check out the Anchor Bay Fish Fry, held every Friday, for deliciously fried fish and other local dishes.
Pink Sand Beach on Harbour Island is the perfect Instagram spot, with its sand derived from seashells and microscopic organisms called foraminifera.

The Commonwealth of The Bahamas is an archipelago stretched out across 500 miles of the Atlantic Ocean. With turquoise waters, warm, salty breezes, and plenty of opportunities to mingle with fun-loving locals, it’s a well-favored Caribbean island destination—perhaps especially for those living along the eastern seaboard, which is connected to The Bahamas via abundant direct flights. Even if you are coming from farther away, this island chain is worth the journey.

“We have always been known for our beautiful beaches and weather; I’m glad that more travelers want to experience something even more valuable than that—the Bahamian people,” Kya Nguyen told Travel + Leisure. Nguyen is a local tour guide who can trace her family’s island lineage back several generations. In fact, her last name has been linked to the pirate Blackbeard’s crew.

“People also love and appreciate our nature and wildlife. Guests always remark on the curly-tailed lizards, and my young pineapples are a favorite photo opp,” Nguyen added. Another sight Nguyen says to prioritize? “Junkanoo, a uniquely Bahamian street parade celebrating music, dance, and freedom.” Although other events throughout the Caribbean hold a similar name—like Jonkonnu in Jamaica and John Canoe in Belize—the festival that takes over Bay Street in Nassau is the real deal.

From world-class resorts and famed spots like Pink Sand Beach to family-friendly accommodations at Atlantis on Paradise Island, every inch of The Bahamas is ripe for exploration. Here’s everything you need to know to plan a trip to The Bahamas.

Atlantis on Paradise Island
Atlantis is one of the most popular resorts in The Bahamas—Prince William and Kate Middleton even spent the night here during their tour of the Caribbean. There are five different hotels on the massive property, so guests can choose the vibe that’s right for them.

Baha Mar
Baha Mar on the island of New Providence is one of the beloved (and convenient) resort options for those flying into Nassau, as it’s a short drive from the airport. The 1,000-acre luxury resort is home to three different luxury hotels, plus a water park and 3,000 feet of private beachfront for guests to enjoy.

Kamalame Cay, Bahamas
Kamalame Cay is considered one of the best resorts in the Bahamas, likely thanks to the property’s sense of solitude. The 96-acre resort isn’t exactly easy to get to, but relaxing in a beachfront villa without another soul in sight makes the trek worthwhile.

Hit the beach.
You will surely spend some time at the beach if you come to The Bahamas. Luckily, all of the Bahamian islands have beautiful beaches to choose from. If we had to suggest a specific one, it would be the highly photogenic Pink Sand Beach on Harbour Island. This three-mile stretch of soft, pink sand—which gets its color from seashells and microscopic organisms called foraminifera—is a place to go for total relaxation. Bring a book, or just plan on spending your time staring at your gorgeous surroundings in total awe.

Charter a boat.
Get out and experience the azure waters surrounding The Bahamas by booking a day trip on a boat, or chartering a private vessel with a captain who will happily lead you on a dive or snorkel adventure. Deep-sea fishing excursions are also available via chartered boat.


