Places in Cuba
You may have heard that Cuba is more than just Havana. Well, it’s true! The island of Cuba has a surprising variety of destinations from the urban, to the rural, to swamplands, waterfalls, beaches, mountains, and lush forests. Here below is our selection of some of the best places to visit in Cuba.

murals-2
Havana
Experience Havana! Classic cars cruise past colourful colonial buildings, people promenade along the Malecón seafront, and the lively music scene gets your toes tapping.

Varadero tourist city sign
Varadero
Varadero is one of the most famous beaches in the world. Renowned for its turquoise sea, crystal-clear water, and fine white sand – for many, it represents that dream Caribbean beach.

vinales-1
Viñales
Enjoy the relaxed pace of rural Cuban life in Viñales, set in a lush valley surrounded by limestone cliffs. Watch as tobacco is harvested and rolled into the famous Cuban cigars.

A sky blue 1950’s Chevy in a plaza in the city of Cienfuegos, Cuba
Cienfuegos
Admire the historic architecture of French-influenced Cienfuegos—the ‘Pearl of the South’—before strolling the narrow Punta Gorda peninsula for panoramic views of the bay. 

A cenote in Bay of Pigs (Playa de Giron)
Bay of Pigs
Explore Cuba’s museum dedicated to the 1961 invasion at the well-known Bay of Pigs, then snorkel or dive the coral reefs of some of Cuba’s most inviting beaches. Too much action? Chill and relax on the beach instead!

Nicho Waterfall Veil
El Nicho Waterfall
Hidden away in a corner of the Escambray mountains between the cities of Cienfuegos and Trinidad, El Nicho is famed for being Cuba's most beautiful waterfall.

Tourists visit the Che Guevara museum and monument in Santa Clara, Cuba
Santa Clara
Discover insights into the Cuban Revolution at Santa Clara’s Che Guevara mausoleum, memorial complex, and Tren Blindado monument. Then, enjoy the lively cultural scene and tantalising cuisine.

The beautiful colonial town of Trinidad
Trinidad
A UNESCO World Heritage site for its sugar industry history, Trinidad blends traditional culture with live music in its atmospheric streets, and is set amidst stunning mountains and beautiful beaches. 

Camaguey
Camaguey
Designed to confuse pirates, you’ll likely get lost in Camaguey’s architecturally rich maze of streets, alleys and plazas. Go local with flavoursome stews and fresh seafood.

House on the Duaba river, Baracoa
Baracoa
Shaped by its indigenous Taíno heritage, isolation, and colonial history, experience Baracoa’s distinctive culture and cuisine using coconut and cacao. In the shadow of El Yunque Table Mountain, it lies between the rainforest and the sea.

Picture of Santiago
Santiago de Cuba
Cradle of the Cuban Revolution, the dynamic Santiago de Cuba blends Afro-Cuban traditions and Son Cubano music in spirited festivals such as the renowned Carnival.

Group in Trinidad in front of Torre Iznaga
Discover the real Cuba on one of our extraordinary Cuba tours
Take an unforgettable journey to the heart of the real Cuba. Fall in love with its stunning landscapes, complex heritage and the passionate spirit of its people. Embrace authentic Cuban life as you taste tantalising cuisine, learn dance moves, and meet friendly local guesthouse hosts. From dynamic Havana to lush Viñales and breathtaking Caribbean beaches, let us show you the rhythmic soul of this captivating country.