Things to do on the West Coast of Puerto Rico: Beaches, Culture and Adventure
Things to Do on the West Coast of Puerto Rico: Beaches, Culture, and Adventure
The west coast of Puerto Rico is a destination full of rich history, pristine beaches vibrant cultures and stunning naturall gems. From sun-soaked shores to colorful murals historic lighthouses and natural wonders there’s something for everyone on the western shores of Puerto Rico. 

Whether you’re visiting for the first time or returning to explore more, I’ve create this guide exploring the top things to do on the west coast of Puerto Rico in hopes of making your trip just as magical and memorable as ours. 

things to do on the west coast of Puerto Rico


Where to Stay on the West Coast of Puerto Rico
We visited the west coast as part of a 10 day trip around Puerto Rico.  Overall, we spent three days on the coast, staying at Rincon of the Seas Grand Carribean Hotel.  This hotel had the perfect proximity to the attractions we wanted to visit. 

This spot proved the perfect place to combine comfort with convenience. We had stunning ocean views and beachfront access that was perfect for snorkeling. The hotel offered a spacious pool with a swim up bar and very affordable Pina Coladas. 



Despite the banging margaritas, the food was, as the kids say, “Mid.”  We tried a few basics and some fun sounding appetizers but weren’t super impressed.  There was an incredible bakery around the street called Sunset Bakery.  The mallorca breakfast sandwich was the stuff dreams are made of.

The hotel was bright and airy with spacious rooms and the perfect amount of tropical accents and nautical decor.  The only downside was the humidity.  Our room required the use of a large, noisy humidifier that filled up daily.  It was a small price to pay for an otherwise ideal experience. 

Top Places to Visit on the West Coast of Puerto Rico
There were so many things to see and do on the west coast of Puerto Rico we couldn’t possibly have fit them in.  The best part about the west coast of PR?  All of these amazing experiences were free! 

Crash Boat Beach
During our research for this trip we discovered that Crash Boat Beach was perhaps the most popular beach on the west coast.  Known for its turquoise waters and excellent swimming and snorkeling it is a popular spot for visitors. 

Parking was a bit tricky here.  We ended up having to park on the side of the road.  Careful though!  A friendly local shared that your tires must be completely off the road to avoid getting a ticket. 

Perhaps our favorite part of this beach was the colorful concrete jetty perfect for fun photos or cannonballing into the clear waters below. There were also quite a few vendors on site offering all sorts of fun food and drinks.  We had our first fresh coconut on the shores of Crash Boat beach, though some of us enjoyed coconut milk more than others. 

things to do on the west coast of Puerto Rico

Rincon Lighthouse
Located just a short drive from our hotel, Rincon Lighthouse is one of Puerto Rico’s most iconic landmarks. Since 1882 it’s lights have guided ships along the west coast. 

The lighthouse was surrounded by a boardwalk, offering breathtaking views of the coastline and stunning sunset views. There were vendors and small eateries nearby offering snacks and drinks while you enjoyed the views.  My girls found fun swings that made perfectly fun photo opps. 

The lighthouse was one of the more accessible attractions of our trip with nearby parking and walking paths leading right up to the lighthouse. We timed our visit right at sunset and weren’t disappointed in the least! 



The Pink Salt Flats of Cabo Rojo
The Pink Salt Flats of Cabo Rojo are one of Puerto Rico’s most striking natural wonders.  The shallow salt ponds with their subtle pink hues are the perfect contrast to the Caribbean blue skies. The salt flats are part of the natural reserve making it perfect for peaceful walks along the marked trails and boardwalks. 

Word to the wise though, this spot has a strong sulphur odor that isn’t exactly pleasing.  While we greatly enjoyed the view, we did end up cutting our trip a bit short because our girls couldn’t handle the strong smell. 

When planning your own visit consider visiting in the arly morning or late evening when the light enhances the pink tones and the crowds are smaller. You’ll find parking nearby, and even an overlook tower you can check out before visiting the flats. Most importantly don’t forget your camera – this place is easily one of the most photogenic spots we’ve ever visited. 



Cabo Rojo Lighthouse
After visiting the Salt Flats, the Cabo Rojo Lighthouse is a natural next stop on your adventure.  This beautiful lighthouse sits atop dramatic limestone cliffs along Puerto Rico’s southwestern coast.  Be prepared though, the hike to the top is quite lengthy, and especially taxing in the heat of the day as there is not much shade offering reprieve from the sun. 

The main parking lots are closed likely due to damage from the last significant hurricane to hit the islands, so the trek to the top is a good 15 minute walk if not longer.  But it’s well worth it for the stunning panoramic views of the turquoise ocean and rugged cliffs. 



There are other trails surrounding the lighthouse that may also be worth checking out.  While our time at this stop was limited, we would certainly love to explore this natural reserve more in depth on our next visit. 



The Macromatic Murals of Yauco
When planning our trip one of the most interesting spots that popped up in our feeds was the macromatic murals of Yauco.  This town was a bit off out of our way but stunning to behold.  The murals were not easily accessible, and we had to park a bit away and hike up some steep hills to reach them. 

This part of town also did not appear to be the best, however, despite appearances the few locals we encountered were friendly and helpful. At one point we got lost looking for the murals and a kind woman directed us through a short alleyway that popped right out where we needed to be. 

These murals are the result of local street artists talent and showcase the culture, history and spirit of Puerto Rico. Even beyond the Macormatic, you’ll find murals and colorful street art in many parts of Yauco offering plenty of perfect photo opps! 



Pozo de Jacinto
Pozo de Jacinto is a natural blowhole located at Playa Jobos.  According to folklore, a young man named Jacinto tragically drowned here and locals believe that the waves and blow hole are tied to his spirit. 

The site is easily accessible from the road, though parking can be a challenge. Once you find a spot its a short walk to the cliffs overlooking the blowhole.  Be sure to mind your steps as the rocks on top are jagged and uneven, at times even slippery from the unpredictable waves.  With a little luck and patience you’ll be rewarded with a stunning shot of the blowhole errupting. 



Beyond the beauty and legend of Pozo de Jacinto, Playa Jobos offers a great deal of local vendors selling snacks, drinks and perfect Puerto Rican souvenirs making it a great all in one stop to grab something to eat and check off some shopping after visiting yet another one of Puerto Rico’s natural wonders. 

Cara del Indio
One of the quickest stops on our itinerary was Cara del Indio.  This roadside attraction is a striking rock sculpture created by artist Issac Laboy Moctezuma in 2000 to honor Cacique Mabodamca, a Taino chief who fought against Spanish colonization in the 1500s. Embedded into limestone cliffs this stunning sculpture serves as both a cultural tribute and a dramatic landside roadmark. 

It’s important to note that this stop is truly a roadside attraction. There’s informal roadside parking nearby and you’ll need to be very careful of traffic if you’re crossing the road to see it.  The traffic was pretty heavy, and the turn into the parking appeared to be a bit of a blind curve making the experience a bit unnerving. 

Despite the sketchy traffic, this unique piece of public art is certainly worth the quick stop.  If you’re lucky you might even catch local vendors selling snacks and drinks nearby. 

things to do on the west coast of puerto rico 

Túnel de Guajataca
Tunel de Guajataca was one of the most beautiful spots we visited our whole trip.  Which is hard to believe because everything in Puerto Rico is scenic, but somehow this place was the cherry on top.  Once used for a railway system transporting goods across the west coast, the stone tunnel now stands as a beautifully preserved historic spot that highlights the beauty man and nature can create when working together. 

things to do on the west coast of puerto rico

Aside from the stunning towering tunnel, you’ll find beautiful murals all around the park and lots of fun photo opps.  The best part of our trip however, was the walking trail that extended beyond the tunnel and led to one of the most dramatic beaches on the west coast. 

This beach had the most beautiful jagged shorelines which seemed illuminated by the turquoise waters. Although swimming wasn’t ideal, I could’ve easily camped out all day here, soaking in the views.



 

Other Tips for Exploring the West Coast
Although we scheduled our trip for July, we found that Puerto Rico’s most comfortable and driest months fall between December and April.   Even so, we found the heat was not unbearable in July.  While it was definitely hot, there were so many opportunities to jump in a pool or the ocean to cool off that it wasn’t a problem at all. 

I’d highly recommend renting a car to get around. Public transportation does not easily reach many attractions on the west coast because they are spread out. Also keep in mind that in Puerto Rico times seems to work differently. People here seem to move at a slower place than those in continental US, and you’ll encounter traffic throughout your trip to prove it. 

When packing it’s best to plan for a mix of activities.  You should always have your beach essentials on hand, but also a good pair of comfortable walking shoes in tow.  A small dayback with plenty of water and snacks is helpful for sightseeing stops, trails and spontaneous beach detours along the way. 

When planning your beach days, be careful and check surf conditions.  Strong waves and rough surf dominate many beaches along Puerto Rico’s west coast. It’s not uncommon for people to drown in these areas.  Some beaches are safer to swim at so be sure to do your research and check posted flags and beach reports before venturing out. 

how to spend 10 days in puerto rico

Your West Coast Puerto Rico Adventure Awaits
From swimming at Crash Boat Beach and watching sunsets at Rincon Lighthouse to exploring Cabo Rojo, Tunel de Gaujataca and the colorful murals of Yauco, there are endless things to do on the west coast of Puerto Rico. You’ll find that beaches, history, culture and beauty seamlessly combine in this laid-back region of the island. 

Skip the rushed schedules and crowded hotspots when visiting the west coast – this is your place to relax and slow down. Keep your plans flexible, chase all the sunsets and don’t hesitate to let a spontaneous stop derail your day.  The beauty of Western Puerto Rico is everywhere and the adventure lies in finding it.