15 things you have to do in Puerto Rico
79
Shares
digg sharing button Sharepinterest sharing button Pinreddit sharing button Share
Top Puerto Rico Hotels
Hotel Condado Vanderbilt ££
La Concha Resort ££
Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa ££
Hotel El Convento £££
Parguera Plaza Hotel ££
Tres Sirenas Beach Inn ££
Check out more hotels in Puerto Rico

One of my major goals when it comes to travel has been to take more trips to warm weather destinations and explore.

I have explored beautiful winter destinations and gorgeous parts of the United Kingdom… but I definitely feel like I manifested this exact trip straight into my existence. 

It checks all of my boxes for this year: warm weather, beaches, open water, sun AND so many things I’ve never tried or done before.

So I’m taking you along with me on my adventures to the Caribbean island of Puerto Rico.

We’re going on a FIVE day road trip exploring the beautiful island and seeing so much of what it has to offer.

And my ultimate list of things to do in Puerto Rico! Don’t miss out on my road trip map at the bottom of this post where you’ll find the locations of each and every single place I went to.

Perfect to save for your future travels.

Get ready for an adventure!

15 things you have to do in Puerto Rico
san juan
san juan food tour
Spend the day in San Juan
Welcome to the beautiful San Juan, Puerto Rico!

Starting my journey around the Caribbean island here in the capital city.

The colourful streets, the kindest people and the BEST FOOD. 

ALSO: How to stay connected while there?
If you’re like me, you never want to miss an opportunity to stay connected while on the go.

I use my favourites, Holafly! Their eSIMs can provide Unlimited Data which keeps me connected! Super handy for maps when visiting a new place or checking out the best restaurants nearby while on the move!

You can check them out here and get your eSIM ahead of your next trip abroad!

Book a food tour in the Old Town
I’d recommend booking a foodie and walking tour around the streets of San Juan.

You stop into favourite local spots to try famed Puerto Rican eats while seeing the sights along the way.

It’s the perfect way to get a feel of the city with a helpful guide to give you the fun facts while making sure you have a fresh cocktail in hand AND pointing out the cute streets you don’t want to miss. 10/10 LOVED it.

The big highlight foodie winner of the day was at Taberna de Lúpulo (essentially a craft beer spot – bottom left) where we had a cubano sandwich and beer + passionfruit cocktail.

Sounds like a strange combination but it’s AMAZING.

But all the food and drinks were unreal. You could literally fly to Puerto Rico just to eat and drink around the island – my kind of holiday! 

Truly such a cool way to explore a new place!

food tour in san juan
spoon food tour san juan

Santa Maria Magdalena de Pazzis
Pay a visit to the beautifully serene outlook at the Santa Maria Magdalena de Pazzis cemetery in Old San Juan next to El Morro.

The oceanfront cemetery’s location is said to be a place for the souls to move outwards into the great beyond towards the sea, which I think is so incredibly moving.

It’s also a historical landmark to San Juan and welcomes visitors to come to admire the beauty within and of the coastline.

Visit Bacardi’s San Juan Distillery
Further proving my point about hospitality and great food and drink… did you know that Bacardi have a huge distillery in San Juan?

It’s literally like a Disneyland for rum lovers.

We had a little VIP experience (mostly, in the barrel room which is very off limits) but the rest you can book as a tour and cocktail making or rum tasting.

It’s definitely one of the best spirits/wine production tours I’ve ever been on. Highly worth a visit when you’re in Puerto Rico! 


More to do in San Juan, Puerto Rico ⬇️

el yunque rainforest
Explore El Yunque National Rainforest
El Yunque National Rainforest is a short drive from the capital city of San Juan. You’ll venture on a little road trip from sunny coastal views into the depths of a stunningly lush rainforest.

What to know about El Yunque? ⤵️
Expect waterfalls, hikes and beautiful natural pools

Visit La Coca Waterfall! It’s incredible and super easy to get to 💦

It’s drivable! You can park on the side of the roads or into lots next to views. It makes it more accessible 🚙

There are 7 hiking trails in the rainforest with varying levels of difficulty: from super easy to a bit harder. Wear comfy hiking shoes + bring a swimsuit to hop in the water 👙

Stop at the Yokahú Observation Tower and climb to the top. You’ll be out of breath but the views are worth it 🗼

If you’re a novice hiker like me, hike the Angelito Trail. It’s a 15-20 minute hike + leads to natural pools and a scenic rope swing 🥾

Be prepared for rain… after all, it’s a rainforest ☔️! The climate is warm so the rain actually feels really lovely to explore in. But keep that in mind when taking cameras, etc

You DO need a reservation to enter the forest – book ahead via their official website 🎟

📍El Yunque National Rainforest, Puerto Rico 🇵🇷

things to do in puerto rico
Explore El Yunque National Rainforest further:

Top Puerto Rico Hotels
Hotel Condado Vanderbilt ££
La Concha Resort ££
Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa ££
Hotel El Convento £££
Parguera Plaza Hotel ££
Tres Sirenas Beach Inn ££
Check out more hotels in Puerto Rico

things to do in puerto rico
ponce 
Wander the streets of Ponce, Puerto Rico
You don’t want to miss the second largest city on the island.

Let’s visit Ponce, Puerto Rico!

Known as the Pearl of the South, it’s no wonder it gained that nickname with these beautiful buildings.

Take a walking tour of the city with Isla Caribe Walking Tours (I’d absolutely recommend them) stop at the art museum and don’t forget to enjoy some flavourful Piragua, or shaved ice from the street vendors.


gilligan's cay
gilligan's cay snorkling tour
Go snorkelling and swimming on a boat tour in Guánica 
Get ready for a day of snorkelling and swimming out on a boat tour with Scuba Dogs. 

We stopped at Gilligan’s Cay which is about a mile off of the coast of Guánica (the southwest coast of Puerto Rico) for a swim in the shallow water, which was definitely a good idea. 

THE WATER IS A DREAM. Hop in, it feels amazing!

I keep pinching myself for doing all of these adventure activities!

PS I would absolutely say when you come to a gorgeous place like Puerto Rico you HAVE to do these kinds of things or you’re missing out!!

swimming in puerto rico

bioluminescent bays puerto rico
bioluminescent bays puerto rico
See one of the Bioluminescent Bays at night 
This is a bucket list moment! Visit one of Puerto Rico’s Bioluminescent Bays at night. 

What happens is that there is algae in the water that illuminates when touched, looking like stars glittering under the sea.

There are three bioluminescent bays on the island of Puerto Rico and five Bioluminescent Bays total in the world.

You can’t see them on film, but to the naked eye – they are STUNNING. You simply have to do it! 


puerto rico travel
Go to the Pink Salt Flats!
Welcome to the Salinas de Cabo Rojo in Puerto Rico – these epic pink salt flats! 💖💦🧂

The way I AM OBSESSED!

While it might look like a pink water beach, it’s actually not.

It is in fact a salt mine and a National Wildlife Refuge.

The specific algae within here gives it that pretty pink colour.

This was absolutely on my Puerto Rico bucket list of places to see in real life!

I’d love to visit again someday to spend even more time exploring this area (and taking more photos and videos, of course!).

There’s even the Faro Los Morrillos Lighthouse a short walk from here as well… one for next time and one to keep saved for your next trip here too!

pink salt flats puerto rico
pink salt flats
PS It’s totally safe to visit, explore and take photos but stick to the paths and note the signs, no drones – because otherwise, I totally would have!

📍Salinas de Cabo Rojo, Puerto Rico 🇵🇷

visit Buyé Beach
best beaches in puerto rico
Lounge and swim on Buyé Beach
Made it to Buyé Beach! My jaw dropped when we walked down here! 

This beach is sooo stunning. The water is very clear and calm. And the sand is super soft, so it’s perfect for spending a day lounging by the sea 🌊☀️🏝️

It’s located in Cabo Rojo, which is a beach town where locals mostly visit. There are also many more beaches in this area… but I’m definitely a fan of this one right here.

📍Buyé Beach, Puerto Rico 🇵🇷

rincon surf school
learning to surf
Go surfing!!!
Would you try surfing on your next holiday vacation?! 🌊🏄‍♀️🏝

We went to the ULTIMATE surfing spot in Puerto Rico, the Surfside town of Rincón for the best spot to catch the waves.

The Domes is the beach we were at this day and it was perfect!

PS the conditions can change depending on the day for surfing.

It’s best to book in ahead with a surf school, like Rincón Surf School so they can advise exactly where you need to be and the safest spots for enjoying the waves. The instructors were SO nice and for beginners they’ll teach you the basics before heading out on the water with you to help you learn the waves.


And to my absolute shock, I actually got up every time on the board!

I wish I’d caught a drone shot of me up on the board, but still, this was the best day ever!

It’s indescribable how much I loved it and can’t wait to hit the water again!

I am so proud of myself for trying so many new things in Puerto Rico!

This trip has been all about trying new experiences and just going for it! And to travel here on my own to meet up with our group… has all felt super empowering!!!

My challenge for 2023 is to try more things that bring me out of my comfort zone and to say yes to the adventures that come my way!

Sooo… would you ever try surfing?? Because I am fully ready to go again!! 🌊🌊🌊 

📍Rincón, Puerto Rico 🇵🇷

Hotel Condado Vanderbilt
What hotels to stay at in Puerto Rico
Top Puerto Rico Hotels
Hotel Condado Vanderbilt ££
La Concha Resort ££
Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa ££
Hotel El Convento £££
Parguera Plaza Hotel ££
Tres Sirenas Beach Inn ££
Check out more hotels in Puerto Rico

Hotel Condado Vanderbilt
When in San Juan, we loved the Hotel Condado Vanderbilt. It has gorgeous coastal views and is a super short drive to the centre of San Juan. Definitely everything you could want and a more luxury stay to start the trip.

Hotel Condado Vanderbilt
Hotel Condado Vanderbilt
Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa
For a more beachy relaxed vibe, stay at the Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa.

It’s on the south west part of the island. Again, it’s right on the water but this stay includes beachfront property. You can actually lay out here on the beach. They also have snorkelling and scuba here too – this is where we went on our afternoon boat tour.

Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa
Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa
Thanks so much for joining me on my adventures in Puerto Rico!

I had an incredible time exploring the island and I tried so many new things this trip too!

This is your reminder to absolutely say yes more to adventures. I would have never thought I’d love surfing but now I’m desperate to go again!! It was so much fun!

You can follow me @kellyprincewright for more travel adventures, guides AND everyday life on my stories. I love reading, films and being cosy in my flat in England just as much as travelling the world! 